README.md, before:

### Project Disaster Response Pipeline

## Installation

## Project Motivation

The project "disaster response pipeline" is part of my nanodegree course in Data Science at Udacity. The program imports csv-files provided by Appen (www.appen.com) with messages during catastrophic events and categorizes them using a ML learning pipeline.
After importing the csv-files and storing them to a sqlite-database, the data is used to train a machine learning pipeline. The pipeline reads in the tokenized messages and vectorizes them and transforms them using a tfidf-transformer.
The TFIDF-transformed messages are then used to train a Multiple Output Classifier, which is based on a Random Forrest Classifier.
To improve results, GridSearch is used to find the best results for certain parameters. 

The model is finally displayed in a flask web app, where the user can enter potential messages which then are classified according to the ML model. 

## File Descriptions

The project is subdivided into three folders. 
1. data
    * disaster_categories.csv
        The file contains the message id and categories.
    * disaster_messages.csv
        The file contains the message id, message text, the original message and the genre.
    * DisasterResponse.db
        Data of the csv-files are combined in the table cat_messages.
    * process_data.py
        The program loads the CSV-files and transforms them and stores the combined data in the table cat_messages of the DisasterResponse.db
2. models
    * train_classifier.py
        The program train_classifier.py imports data from the cat_messages table of the sqlite database DisasterResponse.db and creates a machine learning model from it. 
        Therefore the messages are tokenized, vectorized and tfidf-transformed, before they are used to train a Random Forrest Classifier for multiple outputs.
        Finally the program exports the model to the classifier.pkl Pickle file.
    * classifier.pkl
        The pickle-file stores the machine learning model, to classify messages.
3. app
    * run.py
        The program starts the flask web server, which displays the model and contains the plotly code for the charts on the web app.
    * templates
        * master.html
            Project Landing Page with several charts and input for classification of a custom sentence.
        * go.html
            Classification Results of the entered message.

## Licensing, Authors, Acknowledgements

I have to thank Appen for providing the data for this exciting project and Udacity for pushing myself to the limits again and again and thereby expanding my horizon enormously.

Commit message:

docs: add table of contents in README.md

README.md, after:

### Project Disaster Response Pipeline

## Table of Contents
1.[Installation](#installation)
2.[Project Motivation](#motivation)
3.[File Descriptions](#files)
4.[Results](#results)
5.[Licensing, Authors, and Acknowledgements](#licensing)

## Installation <a name="installation"></a>

The code is written using Pythons version 3.11.0. All libraries are available within the Anaconda distribution of Python.

## Project Motivation <a name="motivation"></a>

The project "disaster response pipeline" is part of my nanodegree course in Data Science at Udacity. The program imports csv-files provided by Appen (www.appen.com) with messages during catastrophic events and categorizes them using a ML learning pipeline.
After importing the csv-files and storing them to a sqlite-database, the data is used to train a machine learning pipeline. The pipeline reads in the tokenized messages and vectorizes them and transforms them using a tfidf-transformer.
The TFIDF-transformed messages are then used to train a Multiple Output Classifier, which is based on a Random Forrest Classifier.
To improve results, GridSearch is used to find the best results for certain parameters. 

The model is finally displayed in a flask web app, where the user can enter potential messages which then are classified according to the ML model. 

## File Descriptions <a name="files"></a>

The project is subdivided into three folders. 
1. data
    * disaster_categories.csv
        The file contains the message id and categories.
    * disaster_messages.csv
        The file contains the message id, message text, the original message and the genre.
    * DisasterResponse.db
        Data of the csv-files are combined in the table cat_messages.
    * process_data.py
        The program loads the CSV-files and transforms them and stores the combined data in the table cat_messages of the DisasterResponse.db
2. models
    * train_classifier.py
        The program train_classifier.py imports data from the cat_messages table of the sqlite database DisasterResponse.db and creates a machine learning model from it. 
        Therefore the messages are tokenized, vectorized and tfidf-transformed, before they are used to train a Random Forrest Classifier for multiple outputs.
        Finally the program exports the model to the classifier.pkl Pickle file.
    * classifier.pkl
        The pickle-file stores the machine learning model, to classify messages.
3. app
    * run.py
        The program starts the flask web server, which displays the model and contains the plotly code for the charts on the web app.
    * templates
        * master.html
            Project Landing Page with several charts and input for classification of a custom sentence.
        * go.html
            Classification Results of the entered message.

## Results <a name="results"></a>

## Licensing, Authors, Acknowledgements <a name="licensing"></a>

I have to thank Appen for providing the data for this exciting project and Udacity for pushing myself to the limits again and again and thereby expanding my horizon enormously.
